# RUL-prediction-of-wind-turbine-gearbox
An integrated prognostics method has been implemented by using Archard's wear model and Bayesian inference to predict the remaining useful life (RUL) of a wind turbine gearbox.
This project aims to establish an integrated prognostics method for predicting the remaining useful life of a planetary wind turbine gearbox. The prediction of the time to failure for components within a wind turbine is becoming more important because of enlargement of the wind turbines. Gearbox is a very critical component in a wind turbine, and it is important to predict the aging of gearbox with accurate approximation so that downtime and excessive cost can be minimized. The physics-based models require fewer data compared to data-driven methods, providing the most accurate estimates of all modeling options if the physics of models remain consistent across the component. However, the physics-based models are complex to develop, and they require detailed and complete knowledge of system behavior, being defect specific. The data-driven methods are efficient and practical at modeling multi-dimensional, complex, and non-linear systems. But they require a large amount of data as representative of actual data range and it´s variability for training, computationally intensive. Therefore, an integrated approach has been chosen in this project considering the dynamic behavior of gearbox wear. The integrated prognostics method for failure time prediction of gears subjects to the surface wear failure mode, utilizing both physical models, i.e., Archard’s wear model and condition monitoring data, i.e., inspection data on gear mass loss in this study. By noticing the importance of the wear coefficient in Archard’s model, the proposed method can result in a more accurate value of the wear coefficient so that the wear evolution in the future is forecasted with more accuracy. To achieve this, a Bayesian update process is implemented to incorporate the mass loss observation at an inspection point to determine the posterior distribution of the wear coefficient. With more mass loss data available, this posterior distribution gets narrower, and its mean approaches the actual value of the coefficient. To use Archard’ model, the gear mesh geometry and Hertz contact theory are applied to compute the sliding distance and the contact pressure for different points on the tooth flank.
